# Bind a tip to a phylogeny (data frame version)

Graft a tip to a phylogeny at location specified.

## Usage

``` r
bind_tip_df(
  tree = NULL,
  where,
  tip_label,
  frac = 0.5,
  new_node_above = FALSE,
  node_label = NULL,
  return_tree = TRUE,
  tree_tbl = NULL,
  node_heights = NULL,
  use_castor = FALSE
)
```

## Arguments

- tree:

  A phylogeny, with class of "phylo".

- where:

  Location where to insert the tip. It can be either tip label or node
  label, but must be characters. If the location does not have a name,
  assign it first.

- tip_label:

  Name of the new tip inserted.

- frac:

  The fraction of branch length, must be between 0 and 1. This only
  applies when location is a tip or `new_node_above = TRUE`. The
  distance from the new inserted node to the location (a node or a tip)
  is the branch length of the location \* (1 - frac).

- new_node_above:

  Whether to insert the new node above when the location is a node?
  Default is `FALSE`, which will attach the new tip to the location
  node.

- node_label:

  Name of the new node created. This only applies when location is a tip
  or `new_node_above = TRUE`.

- return_tree:

  Whether to return a phylogeny with class "phylo?" Default is `TRUE`.
  Otherwise, it will return a data frame.

- tree_tbl:

  A tibble version of the tree, optional.

- node_heights:

  A named numeric vector of node hieghts of the tree, generated by
  [`ape::branching.times()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/ape/man/branching.times.html).
  It is also optional if `tree` is specified; but required if `tree_tbl`
  is specified.

- use_castor:

  Whether to use package `castor` to get the phylogeny at a node; it is
  faster than
  [`tidytree::offspring`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/tidytree/man/offspring.html)
  to figure out what are the tip offsprings at a node.

## Value

Either a phylogeny or a data frame, which can be then converted to a
phylogeny later.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
library(rtrees)
bind_tip(tree_plant_otl, "N70407", tip_label = "test_sp")
tree_plant_otl_df = tidytree::as_tibble(tree_plant_otl)
node_heights = ape::branching.times(tree_plant_otl)
bind_tip(tree_tbl = tree_plant_otl_df, where = "N70407", 
         tip_label = "test_sp", node_heights = node_heights)
} # }
```
